JP-3554: Add MSA meta data file docs (#8399)
spacetelescope/jwst: docs/jwst/data_products/msa_metadata.rst

.. _msa_metadata:

> MSA Meta Data File: ``msa``

Reviewer: here and throughout: this is a nitpick, but to me it feels much more natural to use/see "metadata" without a space in between.  For example, [the Wikipedia article on the metadata](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metadata) does not use a space

If any of these keywords is missing from the input science exposure, processing
will not be able to proceed and an error will be raised.

File Structure
--------------
The overall structure of the MSA FITS file is as follows:

+-----+---------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+
| HDU | EXTNAME       | HDU Type | Data Type | Dimensions         |
+=====+===============+==========+===========+====================+
|  0  | N/A           | primary  | N/A       | N/A                |
+-----+---------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+
|  1  | SHUTTER_IMAGE | IMAGE    | float32   | 342 x 730          |
+-----+---------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+
|  2  | SHUTTER_INFO  | BINTABLE | N/A       | variable x 12 cols |
+-----+---------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+
|  3  | SOURCE_INFO   | BINTABLE | N/A       | variable x 8 cols  |
+-----+---------------+----------+-----------+--------------------+

 - PRI: The primary data array is empty. The primary header contains a small amount of
   meta data related to the observation and MSA configuration.

>  - SHUTTER_IMAGE: 2-D data array containing a map of MSA shutters that've been commanded

Reviewer: If these are only the ones that have been commanded open, how does the pipeline find out about shutters that are permanently open or permanently closed?

| RA          | float64   | Source RA            |
+-------------+-----------+----------------------+
| DEC         | float64   | Source Dec           |
+-------------+-----------+----------------------+
| PREIMAGE_ID | string    | Pre-image ID         |
+-------------+-----------+----------------------+
| STELLARITY  | float64   | Source stellarity    |
+-------------+-----------+----------------------+

The SHUTTER_INFO Meta Data
--------------------------
It is the :ref:`assign_wcs <assign_wcs_step>` step in the
:ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>` pipeline that opens and loads all
of the necessary information from the MSA meta data file. For each slitlet that
it identifies as being used in the current exposure, a ``Slit`` object is
created and populated with all the shutter and source information needed in
subsequent processing steps. The list of ``Slit`` objects is attached to the
data model for the exposure being processed and passed along to all subsequent
calibration steps.

For a given exposure, only table rows
where the values of `MSAMETID` and `PATT_NUM` in the science exposure match
the values of `msa_metdata_id` and `dither_point_index`, respectively, are

> loaded, so that it's only dealing with meta data that apply to the science
> exposure being processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
loaded.
```

| PID  | ID   |   Name    | Alias |    RA      |     Dec     | Image        | Stellarity |
+======+======+===========+=======+============+=============+==============+============+
| 1180 |   42 | 1180_0042 |  Bob  | 53.1456291 | -27.7674976 | 95065001_001 |    1.00    |
+------+------+-----------+-------+------------+-------------+--------------+------------+
| 1180 | 1001 | 1180_1001 |  Sue  | 53.1435047 | -27.7689669 | 95065001_001 |    0.00    |
+------+------+-----------+-------+------------+-------------+--------------+------------+
| 1180 | 3333 | 1180_3333 | Erin  | 53.1485349 | -27.7696165 | 95065001_001 |    0.23    |
+------+------+-----------+-------+------------+-------------+--------------+------------+
| 1180 | 9876 | 1180_9876 | Dave  | 53.1461433 | -27.7617165 | 95065001_001 |    0.88    |
+------+------+-----------+-------+------------+-------------+--------------+------------+

For each slitlet identified as having a source assigned to it in the shutter meta data,
the source name, alias, RA, Dec, and stellarity are retreived from the `SOURCE_INFO`
table and stored with the ``Slit`` object created in the calibration software.

> The stellarity values in particular will be used in the :ref:`source type <srctype_step>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The stellarity values are used in the :ref:`source type <srctype_step>`
```

- BACKGROUND: boolean indicating whether the shutter is open to background
  only or contains a known source.
- SHUTTER_STATE: OPEN or CLOSED. Generally will always be OPEN, unless
  the shutter is part of a long slit that is not contiguous.
- ESTIMATED_SOURCE_IN_SHUTTER_X/Y: the position of the source within the
  shutter in relative units, where 0,0 is bottom-left, 0.5,0.5 is center,
  and 1,1 is upper-right, as planned in the MPT.
- DITHER_POINT_INDEX: integer index of the nod sequence; matches to
  header keyword `PATT_NUM`.
- PRIMARY_SOURCE: boolean indicating whether the shutter contains the
  primary science source.

It is the :ref:`assign_wcs <assign_wcs_step>` step in the
:ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>` pipeline that opens and loads all
of the necessary information from the MSA metadata file. For each slitlet that
it identifies as being used in the current exposure, a ``Slit`` object is
created and populated with all the shutter and source information needed in
subsequent processing steps. The list of ``Slit`` objects is attached to the
data model for the exposure being processed and passed along to all subsequent
calibration steps.

> For a given exposure, only the rows of shutter table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a given exposure, only the rows of the shutter table
```
